Added Mapepire description and settings (#110)
halcyon-tech/docs: src/content/docs/settings/mapepire.mdx

## Server mode
Mapepire is assumed to have been started beforehand and is running on IBM i. It acts as a shared database server, handling every connection coming from clients (through a secure WebSocket connection, by default on port `8076`). This one server is used by everyone and it doesn't support private keys and needs a password to maintain security. So you'll either enter a password every time you connect or save your password in your connection.

Mapepire server mode is started using no argument when running the mapepire.jar file. See [Server Install/Config](https://mapepire-ibmi.github.io/guides/sysadmin/)

![assets/mapepire_01.png](/src/assets/settings/mapepire_03.png)

When connecting and using Server mode, Code for IBM i doesn't upload and use the Mapepire jar file.

Server mode makes the connection faster and it consumes fewer resources globally on the IBM i. **_But_** it requires more initial work on the sys admin side to set up and ensure it is running.

> ## Pros and cons

Reviewer: There doesn't appear to be anything under this heading. Should we remove it or did you mean to have something here?

## Client settings
<CardGrid>
    <Card>All Mapepire client settings are regrouped under the connection settings' `Mapepire` tab.</Card>
    <Card>![assets/mapepire_01.png](/src/assets/settings/mapepire_01.png)</Card>
</CardGrid>

> #### Use secure SQL connection

Reviewer: Shall we make this and all the headings below `###`?

---
title: Mapepire
---

import { Aside, CardGrid, Card } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

> Since version 3, Code for IBM i uses Mapepire to access Db2 for i and run queries. Mapepire is a database access layer that can be used in Single mode (through Code for IBM i SSH channel) or in Server mode (through HTTP).

Reviewer: > Server mode (through HTTP).

@sebjulliand Throughout this doc and in the diagram, I see we mention that server mode uses HTTP where in fact it would use secure web sockets. Shall we correct that?

Author: Good catch. I updated it all.

> Since version 3, Code for IBM i uses Mapepire to access Db2 for i and run queries. Mapepire is a database access layer that can be used in Single mode (through Code for IBM i SSH channel) or in Server mode (through HTTP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since version 3, Code for IBM i uses [Mapepire](https://mapepire-ibmi.github.io/) to access Db2 for i and run queries. Mapepire is a database access layer that can be used in Single mode (through Code for IBM i SSH channel) or in Server mode (through HTTP).
```

> Mapepire can run in two distinct mode. The mode used by Code for IBM i is determined by the `Connect to remote Mapepire server` connection settings described below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mapepire can run in two distinct modes. The mode used by Code for IBM i is determined by the `Connect to remote Mapepire server` connection settings described below.
```

## Single mode
This is the mode used by default by Code for IBM i. In this mode, Mapepire is started in the SSH channel opened from VS Code, and it runs indefinitely in that channel, reading requests from the channel's standard input and replying on the channel's standard output. Mapepire is started by Code for IBM i when you connect to the IBM i. Every connection made from VS Code this way creates a Mapepire Java process.

> The default mode used by Code for IBM i. Mapepire is started by Code for IBM i in an SSH channel opened from VS Code, when you first connect to the IBM i. On the IBM i it creates a Java JVM that exists until you disconnect. Mapepire runs endlessly in its SSH channel, reading requests from the channel's standard input and replying on the channel's standard output.

Reviewer: Some of what is in this paragraph looks to be a repeat of the last such as the first sentence was repeated. Was that intentional?

Author: My bad.

Think of Mapepire as a bridge between VS Code and Db2 for i in this case. The single mode is started using `--single` as an argument when running the mapepire.jar file.

![assets/mapepire_01.png](/src/assets/settings/mapepire_02.png)

> When connecting and using single mode, Code for IBM i will upload the Mapepire jar file under the current user `.vscode` folder under their home directory before starting Mapepire. (i.e. the remote file is `~/.vscode/mapepire-server-X.Y.Z.jar`). Code for IBM i takes care of checking and updating the jar file when needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When connecting and using single mode, Code for IBM i will upload the Mapepire jar file under the current user's `.vscode` folder under their home directory before starting Mapepire. (i.e. the remote file is `~/.vscode/mapepire-server-X.Y.Z.jar`). Code for IBM i takes care of checking and updating the jar file when needed.
```

Single mode does not require a HTTPS connection and this may be easier if there are network restrictions. **_But_** when connecting, starting Mapepire adds the overhead of starting a JVM which can be slow on IBM i.  And if there are many connections more IBM i resources may be consumed which might be significant on a smaller machine. And using the `Db2 for i extension` also creates another SSH channel with its own JVM.

## Server mode

> Mapepire is assumed to have been started beforehand and is running on IBM i. It acts as a shared database server, handling every connection coming from clients (through HTTPS, by default on port `8076`). This one server is used by everyone and to maintain security it must know your password.

Reviewer: > it must know your password.

What did you mean by this part?

Reviewer 2: I am the originator of  that sentence. It is an explanation of why you might need to enter a password, even if you connect with a private key, This was a surprise to me when I switched to server mode. See [issue #3327](https://github.com/codefori/vscode-ibmi/issues/3327)

You might want to add something like this:
Mapepire doesn't support private keys and needs a password to maintain security. So you either enter a password every time you connect or you save your password in your connection.

> When using Server mode, Mapepire is assumed to be started beforehand and running on IBM i. As its name implies, it acts as a server, handling every connection coming from clients on port `8076`, by default. One server is used by everyone. Mapepire is not meant to be started from by clients in this case, it wouldn't make sense. hence why it is assumed that it will be running on the remote IBM i. Every client connects to it through HTTPS.

Reviewer: Again, the first sentence looks to be repeated from the last paragraph. Was that on purpose?

Author: 😅

> When using Server mode, Mapepire is assumed to be started beforehand and running on IBM i. As its name implies, it acts as a server, handling every connection coming from clients on port `8076`, by default. One server is used by everyone. Mapepire is not meant to be started from by clients in this case, it wouldn't make sense. hence why it is assumed that it will be running on the remote IBM i. Every client connects to it through HTTPS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using Server mode, Mapepire is assumed to be started beforehand and running on IBM i. As its name implies, it acts as a server, handling every connection coming from clients on port `8076`, by default. One server is used by everyone. Mapepire is not meant to be started from by clients in this case, it wouldn't make sense. Hence why it is assumed that it will be running on the remote IBM i. Every client connects to it through HTTPS.
```

Mapepire server mode is started using no argument when running the mapepire.jar file. See [Server Install/Config](https://mapepire-ibmi.github.io/guides/sysadmin/)

![assets/mapepire_01.png](/src/assets/settings/mapepire_03.png)

When connecting and using Server mode, Code for IBM i doesn't upload and use the Mapepire jar file.

Server mode makes the connection faster and it consumes fewer resources globally on the IBM i. **_But_** it requires more initial work on the sys admin side to set up and ensure it is running.

## Pros and cons

## Client settings
<CardGrid>

>     <Card>Every Mapepire client settings a regrouped under the connection settings' `Mapepire` tab.</Card>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <Card>All Mapepire client settings are regrouped under the connection settings' `Mapepire` tab.</Card>
```

- **System**: system naming convention. Separator to qualify object can be `/` or `.`. The library list is used to resolve unqualified objects.
- **SQL**: SQL naming convention. Separator to qualify objects is `.`. The current schema is used to resolve unqulified objects.

#### Keep action spooled files
When enabled, spooled files generated by an Action will not be deleted once the action is done. Otherwise, any spooled file generated by an Action will be cleared after it's done.

#### Mapepire Java runtime (single mode)
Select which version of Java should be used to run Mapepire in Single mode.
- **Default**: use the default Java installation on the target LPAR (i.e. the Java installation used when running the unqualified `java` command).
- **Java XX**: use Java version XX, where XX can be 8, 11, 17 or 21. Make sure you select a version that is actually installed on the target LPAR. 

#### Connect to remote Mapepire server
When enabled, Code for IBM i will connect over HTTPS to a remote Mapepire server already running on the target IBM i instead uploading and running Mapepire in an SSH channel.

<Aside type="note">

> Enabling this setting means Code for IBM i will connect to a Mapepire server already started and running in server mode on the remote LPAR instead of running it in Single mode through SSH.

Reviewer: This also looks to be a repeat of the sentence above.

Author: My bad again.
